
What is JDK?
- The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development kit that contains all the tools necessary to develop, compile, and run Java programs.


What is JVM?
- Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is a software that provides an environment for running Java programs.
It interprets the bytecode, which is a compiled form of the Java source code, and executes it on the computer's hardware.


What is bytecode?
- When you run a Java program, the source code is first compiled into bytecode.
Once the bytecode is generated, it is then executed by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).


what is variable ?
-Variables are containers for storing data values. In Java, there are different types of variables, for example: String - stores text, such as "Hello"

Why Java is called strongly typed language ?
- Java is called a strongly typed language because it requires all variables to be declared with a specific data type and it 
enforces strict type checking at compile time.

What is datatype in JAVA?
- A data type is a classification of data that defines the type of value a variable can hold,
the operations that can be performed on that data, and the amount of memory required to store it.

What is Garbage Collection ?
-Garbage collection in Java is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management.
 Garbage collection is the process of automatically freeing up memory that is no longer being used by an application.

Primitive data types - includes byte, short, int, long, float, double, boolean and char.

 Non-primitive data types: The non-primitive data types include Classes, Interfaces, and Arrays.
 
 What is Operator in JAVA?
 - Operator in Java is a symbol that is used to perform operations. For example: +, -, *, / etc.
 
 Arithmetic  - An arithmetic operator is a mathematical operator that performs basic arithmetic operations such as addition, 
 subtraction, multiplication, and division. (* ,/, %, + , - ).
 
 Comparison operators (e.g., ==, !=, >, <, >=, <=) / Relational Operator
 Comparison operators are used to compare two values (or variables). 
 This is important in programming, because it helps us to find answers and make decisions.
The return value of a comparison is either true or false.

Logical operators (e.g., &&, ||, !)

These operators are used to combine multiple comparison statements and return a single boolean result.
&& (and) returns true if both operands are true, otherwise false.
|| (or) returns true if either operand is true, otherwise false.
! (not) returns the opposite of the operand (i.e., if the operand is true, ! returns false).

Java Ternary Operator

Java Ternary operator is used as one line replacement for if-then-else statement and used a lot in Java programming. 
It is the only conditional operator which takes three operands.
 
 // Simple Interest Program 
 
 import java.util.Scanner;
 
public class SimpleInterest {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Scanner ob = new Scanner(System.in);
        System.out.println("Enter the principal amount: ");
        double principal = ob.nextDouble();
        System.out.println("Enter the rate of interest: ");
        double rate = ob.nextDouble();
        System.out.println("Enter the time (in years): ");
        double time = ob.nextDouble();
        double interest = (principal * rate * time) / 100;
        System.out.println("Simple Interest: " + interest);
    }
}

What is break statement in java
break statement is used to exit or break out of a loop.
When the break statement is encountered inside a loop, the loop is immediately terminated and the program control resumes
at the next statement following the loop.

When the continue statement is encountered inside a loop, the current iteration is skipped and the program control moves to
the next iteration of the loop.

What is the difference between break and continue ?
In simple words, break statement is used to exit the loop and continue statement is used to 
skip an iteration of the loop and move to the next iteration.

What is the use of finalize() method in JAVA?
The Java finalize() method of Object class is a method that the Garbage Collector always calls just before the deletion/destroying 
the object which is eligible for Garbage Collection to perform clean-up activity.

What is constructor?
In Java, a constructor is a special type of method that is used to initialize objects.
It is automatically called when an object is created, and has the same name as the class.It has no return type.

What is type conversion in JAVA?
Converting one primitive datatype into another is known as type casting (type conversion) in Java.
Example
public class WideningExample {
   public static void main(String args[]){
      char ch = 'C';
      int i = ch;
      System.out.println(i);
   }
}

What is package in JAVA?
A java package is a group of similar types of classes, interfaces and sub-packages.
Package in java can be categorized in two form, built-in package and user-defined package.

What is this keyword in java?
The this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor.
The most common use of the this keyword is to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters with the same name

What is wildcard in java?
In Java, wildcards are a feature of generics that allow you to specify a type parameter with more flexibility. A wildcard is represented by the ? symbol,
and it can be used in two ways: as a wildcard parameter type in a generic type, or as a wildcard argument in a method or constructor.

